The point I'm making is what is it going to tell me?
Here's the thing we don't know. One of the things is, you know,
I'll tell you a little problem,
cause I've seen hundreds of hundreds of people who've already done blood work.
So I know it's going to show basically, you know, so I've gotten,
we've got this study going,
we've got all these people with submitting blood work, but the, uh, you know,
probably my HDL will go up. My triglycerides will go down.
My blood sugar will stabilize to a low level. My, my, uh,
inflammatory markers will be normal.
That's because I've seen lots and lots of other people's blood work already.
So I know what's going to show my cholesterol may be up or down and that's,
and that's something that we, a lot of people worried about that. And, you know,
I can talk about cholesterol in my view is a pretty worthless marker,
you know, by itself, you know, you have to take it into context.
And so there's a, you know, there's a couple of people that are really,
really intelligent about cholesterol that are really testing this sort of stuff.
One guy's name is Dave Feldman on Twitter. His name is Dave Quito.
There's another guy named Ivor Cummins.
Who's an Australian named both engineers. And so this was,
this is what happened. This guy, Dave,
he goes on a ketogenic diet and his cholesterol goes sky friggin high.
It's like 400, you know, way, way up there.
And his doctor freaking out and he's freaking out. So he's like,
I don't understand this. I mean, I feel great.
Everything about me is just the best health ever felt in my life.
So what he does is he starts drawing his blood every single day.
He gets a blood test.
And what he finds out is that his blood cholesterol is all over the
place. One day, it's 300, the next day, it's 201 day.
It's three 50 the next day. And so what we,
when we go to the doctor every six months a year and they get a blood
cholesterol, you assume, well, that's my cholesterol. And it's always that way.
Well, he found out that it's so variable.
They've actually known about this since the 1950s,
but no one has been talking about it.
So what he figured out and he's a systems engineer and he's engineers are some
smart guys. I mean, that's the one thing I kind of talk about.
It's just get somebody an MD or PhD doesn't mean they know everything.
There's a lot of people that are plumbers and whatever.
They don't have any formal training that configured they're smart people and
they can figure this stuff out. So he's an, he's an engineer, real smart guy.
And so what he does is he figures out the cholesterol is basically all it is,
is it's traveling around in your blood based on energy flux. So how much,
so if you've eaten a lot,
so if you've eaten a whole bunch of food and your fault, your liver is saying,
I don't need to put out a bunch of fat because we burn fat as fuel.
Even if you're not on a ketogenic diet. So what it does is it transports fat.
So when you're hungry and you haven't eaten it for awhile,
like you fast it for a blood test, your liver says we need fat in the Cisco's,
we're low on energy. And so it shoots out all this fat.
And what happens is cholesterol is cruising around for a ride.
So it's just sitting there, you know, um, you know, as a passenger.
So depending on how much you've eaten, when you've eaten,
it'll change your cholesterol. And so it's not ever a good marker. I mean,
you can, you can find studies that show for all cause mortality.
Like if you're like you, you and me on it. Cause you're,
you're the same age as I am. I think you do it right. 50 50. So if we look at,
you know, and again, associational studies are not that great,
but if you look at that and you say all cause mortality,
if I'm am I going to die or not? If your cholesterol is high,
you're less likely to die. If your cholesterol is high,
you're less likely to get Parkinson's disease. If your cholesterol is high,
you're less likely to get a bunch of cancers. You know? So it's like.
So you're saying that though, but most people hear this and they go, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah. If your cholesterol is high,
you're gonna get a heart attack. Well, here's the deal.
Yeah. Here's the, here's the deal with heart attacks know,
and this is interesting because you know, vegetarian to vegan,
I don't mean to pick on vegetarians and vegans because you know,
I know some great ones are great people. And I think, you know,
there shouldn't be a war between us, but vegetarians and vegans,
the number one killer of vegetarian vegan is heart disease. I mean,
that's what kills them too. It kills everybody. So it's just like, you know,
you know, do you trade, am I going to have cancer?
Am I going to try to have heart disease? You know, which one.
Pick your poison. Most people don't understand that the sugar industry's
hijacking of science in the 1950s,
the way they paid off those scientists to literally false
advertise the idea that sugar is safe for you,
but that saturated fat and cholesterol is what's causing all these issues with
people and heart attacks to this day. People just sort of repeat that.
Like they think it's.
Yeah. I mean it's, and it is, it's part of the, it's part of the,
the framework of society now. I mean, it's like.
That got you to say, I'm just gonna eat nothing but meat.
Was there anybody that you knew that was doing it really well,
that you were talking to? Did you get some.
Like I said, it was just reading about people online, you know, um, you know,
there's, uh, you know, if there's a, I'll tell you what,
there's a guy named Joe Anderson on Twitter, his handle is Joe Charlene,
98, 8 88, 98 or 98, 8 is this guy, you know,
it's just the guy who's been doing it for 20 years. I'm just like,
this is pretty cool. Like I said, reading back on that stuff.
And then just because I've been an athlete, I'm like, and I don't, you know,
I've never taken drugs and stuff like that. And I was always like,
what can get me to the next level as far as athletic comp,
because I'm just a really competitive guy. I mean, I just, I just like to,
you know, push myself.
I know a lot of Savage people that eat mostly meat, my friend cam,
Hans eats almost all meat. He occasionally eats like something else.
But most of what he eats is me, my friend Jocko, Willink. Yeah. When he's tired,
he goes, I need more steak. That's what he does. He eats it.
I mean, I'd say it was a frickin health food. It totally is. I mean,
and you know, there's a guy named Bobby Maximus. Who's a, who's a fitness guy.
He was, he,
I guess he was used to meet an MMA guy years ago or something like that.
But I know he did this steak every day thing.
And so if we look back into history, I mean,
there's all kinds of accounts of people using meat as an athletic performance
enhancer, you know, back in the original Greek Olympics,
those guys knew that they had a lot of meat there perform better. You know,
the Beefeaters out of London, you know,
these guys were the guards for the Kings. You know, they gave him extra meat.
Cause I know they would fight better. The, you know, the Mongols, you know,
they just decimated, you know, all through Asia,
they basically just ate their horses and their meat. You know,
that's what they did when I traveled with that. You know?
And so you've got all these historical examples of people performing better.
You know, they, they were, they were,
they were known to have this incredible work capacity and all, they, you know,
they, it was seal meat and, and reindeer and you stuff like that.
So what's a typical.
Diet for you. Like you give me a normal day, you wake up in the morning.
Well, I'll tell you what to do. So today, I mean, you know, eating wise,
some that, you know, generally either one meal or two meals,
depending on what my workout training is going to be. So this morning, you know,
cause I knew it was coming up here. I train real early morning. Well, it's fast.
I, you know, I set a new record by the way in my personal record is doing that.
But I had a couple of New York strips. I had them out, uh, two pounds.
You ate two pounds of meat. Well, that's a snack. Is that your phone man?
To keep it? It might be, you might have your little thing on.
Getting notifications from people saying.
Hey brew, you.
Let me turn it.
Man. You look just like you.
So you had two New York strips today. Yeah. I mean, that's two pounds of me.
You know, it took me a while to build up to this before, you know,
like a pound of meat would be, you know, that'd be tough now I can,
I can put down four pounds at one time with them.
People looking at you would go, well, he's super lean.
I got obviously whatever you're eating your body's processing it really well
when you don't have a,
you don't have what someone would think of as a steak heater gut.
Like you tell a guy, someone, a guy eats two steaks a day and like,
oh it must have a gut,
but that's all that mashed potatoes and macaroni and cheese and bread. Yeah.
Yeah. It makes the stuff you eat with it. I mean, I've just, uh, you know,
I put like I sit on that Instagram page, I've got, you know,
me exercising and doing stuff and you know, pictures.
That was something that you talked about, uh,
outside the studio right before we came in that the studies that have been done
on people consuming meat. And I brought this up as well.
That there's a lot of misconceptions about these studies because they're not
very clear when they say that people who eat meat five times a week are more
likely to get cancer.
What they're not telling you is what these people ate along with the meat.
Are they eating cheeseburgers or are they eating grass fed beef or it's grass
finished grass fed, you know, high in essential fatty acids, healthy for you?
Or are they eating some cheeseburger with a sugary drink?
Like what is the rest of their diet?
Are they consuming a lot of refined carbohydrates?
Are they consuming a lot of sugar? Are they drinking alcohol?
They smoking cigarettes.
All you're saying is they're eating meat five days a week. It's not,
it's not specifying in any way their actual overall diet.
No, they don't sort that very, very well out.
So they've got all these epidemiology studies and basically a mediator is
basically someone and, you know, statistically,
we know they're more likely to smoke. They're more likely to drink.
They're more likely not to wear their seatbelt.
They're more likely to be in accidents.
They're more likely not to go to their doctor or they're not.
They're more likely just not to care.
So you've got that's what a meeting is that what's this cause people,
cause if I tell you, as I say, Joe, eating meats bad for you and you say a few,
I don't care. I don't care about my health. Right? So you just don't care.
So this isn't, so they can't separate that out.
So they've got all these studies where they, they try to separate out and say,
well kind of what kind of, even up to smokers, but they never can take that.
I don't give a, you know, I don't give a right thing out of it.
So you've got this stuff and then all the studies are really,
really low strength. So if we look at well, you know,
and we can talk about this, about meat, meat being causing cancer.
Cause there's a, there's some concern about that with colon cancer.
But if we look at smoking, you know,
when they determine that smoking cause cancer,
the epidemiology showed a 2000% increase in the incidence
of cancer. And a lot of studies when they compare that to meat and cancer,
they found it 18% increase, which is nothing. I mean, it's like, it's like,
it doesn't even matter. It's so.
1% Is in high, not.
Not when you look at relative risk, right? So if your risk,
if your risk of getting colon cancer is one or say your risk of getting
colon cancer is a five in a
million. Right. And now it's six in a million. I mean,
it's like nothing. I mean, it's like, it's so minor,
but if your risk is going from five and a million to 300 and a million,
then you're like, well, that's pretty powerful problem.
So it depends on the incident.
So if it's really low to begin with and you only raise it by tiny amount,
it's so small. And so what we know there was a guy named Bretford hill,
talked about statistical correlations on when these things actually matter and
not to get to 200% or 300%, does it even matter?
You can't draw any conclusion from that, the problem.
200, 300% difference out of like a thousand. Yeah. Instead of two,
it would be six. Yeah. So something along those lines.
So instead of right, so instead of being 18%, more like a year, 200%,
more likely.
Numbers are confusing to people though, the way he's saying 200%, like what,
when you.
It's a lot of people, right? So,
so you would have to double or triple your risk.
So 18% is not double or tripling. It's only putting it up by a fraction. Right?
Right. So when you, when you separate all that stuff out and then, then,
you know, there was, uh, you know, the world health organization two years ago,
last year, two years ago, declared that red meat was a class, two carcinogen,
a processed meats was a class one carcinogen, you know,
they said it's like plutonium and smoking. And you know,
everybody runs to runs all over the place with that. Well, why did they do that?
So here's why they do that. So first of all, and you can,
you can go on their website and you know, they'll tell you what their,
what their conclusions were.
So this was done by an organization called the international association for
research on cancer. They're based out of Leland, France, and they are, uh,
you know, that's what the world health organization, uh,
uses to determine their stuff. And so they're written, and this is, you know,
besides the point where right now the IRC is under,
under investigation by us Congress for using crappy science and, you know,
promoting a political agenda. So I don't know if that's true or not.
Part of that's generated by probably big corporations that don't like their
findings, but so they're under investigation for that.
But what they say is we have some weak epidemiology,
which is this 18% stuff,
but we think we have some strong mechanistic reasons for this, right?
So if everybody, you know, there's a,
there's a doctor named George E E D E who's, uh,
who's a psychiatrist out in Maryland. Who's got this, just tremendous analyzed.
The whole thing. She has a website called diagnosis, diet.com.
So she did an analyst analysis of all the 800 studies they used.
And she found that what they ended up doing is most of them showed me didn't
cause cancer. There was a small percentage that didn't,
they looked at all these rat studies and there was about 20,
20 twenty-five rat studies.
And they found like three or four of them showed meat. You know,
if we gave this type of cancer,
if we gave this rat a certain amount of meat and we genetically
bred them and we gave them a medicine that makes them get cancer,
that they get a little bit of change in their colon that might turn into cancer.
Medicine that makes them get cancer.
Oh, I don't remember.
There's something there there's a special way to make rats get cancer.
So they have this model that it makes them get cancer really, really easy.
So what they did is.
Why would they do that?
If they're trying to find out if something gives something cancer.
Because they want to make it, they want to be able to, you know,
they want to differentiate that as quick as possible because they gotta use a
million rats and I get it.
And I see what you're saying is the real fast way to show up they get cancer.
But the problem with that, and she explained them very well,
is that we don't know that they would get cancer. It's not shown.
And the other thing when we talked about this before,
is that if you want to look at rat studies and it's not to say that plants give
you cancer,
but there are pesticides and plants that have been studied in rats that we eat
every day, natural foods and vegetables and fruits that also give rats cancer.
And so the only difference is we've got some yes.
By pesticides.
You mean things that natural compounds that plants extract or they
secrete in order to discourage predation. Exactly. So these natural substances,
when they feed them to rats, the isolate them and feed them to rats,
it gives the rods cancer of 52.
They get tested 27 of them.
These are just normal foods that we eat on a daily basis.
And stuff we eat on a daily basis.
So it's not to scare people out of eating that stuff. Right. But it's the same,
that's how much BS and stuff is based upon.
It seems to me to be so crazy that they would,
they're doing a cancer study and they give the rat something that induces cancer
in order to find out what gives them cancer more.
So they give them this compound that on top of the compound and they,
they check their diet. Right.
And they also feed them sugar with it. You know, that's kinda like,
it's just the way they do it, you know? And so, you know, you, you, you can,
you can extrapolate, does that really matter to humans or not?
It's just so hard to tell. I mean,
there's so many things that animals can eat that we can't, it's just,
the whole thing is bizarre. Yeah.
I mean, we're not rats, you know, that's interesting, you know,
it's like the same thing when we talked about, you know,
cancer rates in the historical populations, you know, what Messiah they didn't,
they didn't have much cancer, you know, not until we started feeding them,
you know, in the 1940s, thirties and stuff like that. None.
So till we started feeding them all our crap that they started to get those
diseases.